=== STORAGE HEALTH ASSESSMENT REPORT ===
Created using vi editor

1. AVAILABLE STORAGE DEVICES
Command used: lsblk

Observation: lsblk listed all block storage devices in a tree format
showing device names, sizes, type (disk/partition) and mount points.
This gave a complete overview of all physical and logical storage
devices available on the system including any loop devices used
by the cloud shell environment.

2. MOUNTED FILE SYSTEMS
Command used: df -h
Command used: mount | head -20

Observation: df -h showed all currently mounted filesystems with
human-readable sizes. Each row showed the filesystem, total capacity,
used space, available space, usage percentage and mount point.
The mount command revealed what filesystem types are mounted and
with what options such as read-write or read-only access.

3. DISK USAGE STATISTICS
Command used: du -sh ~/
Command used: du -sh /* 2>/dev/null | sort -rh | head -10

Observation: du -sh showed total disk space consumed by my home
directory. The sorted du command on root directories identified
the top 10 largest space consumers on the system. This information
is critical for capacity planning and identifying directories that
could be cleaned up to free storage space.

4. INODE UTILIZATION
Command used: df -i

Observation: df -i showed inode usage statistics across all mounted
filesystems. Each file and directory on Linux consumes exactly one
inode regardless of its size. A filesystem can completely run out
of inodes before running out of disk space when there are millions
of tiny files, which would prevent creation of any new files even
with free disk space available. Monitoring inodes is as important
as monitoring disk space.

5. STORAGE HEALTH OBSERVATIONS
Based on commands executed:
- System storage appears healthy with no critical warnings
- All filesystems are mounted and accessible
- Home directory usage is within acceptable limits
- No filesystem is critically close to 100% capacity
- Inode usage is well within normal limits
- Cloud shell provides adequate storage for development work

6. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR IMPROVING STORAGE UTILIZATION
- Run du -sh /* regularly to monitor large directories
- Keep df -h output below 80% to avoid storage issues
- Use df -i to check inode usage on mail or log servers
- Archive old log files in /var/log to free up disk space
- Remove unused packages with apt autoremove periodically
- Compress large files that are not frequently accessed
- Monitor storage growth trends to plan capacity upgrades
